[CU-34hy71m] Added RFC 0010 - Calculation of all On-Chain Existential Deposit Values (#2181)
ComposableFi/composable: rfcs/0010-define-calculations-of-existential-deposit.md

# Calculation of all On-Chain Existential Deposit Values

## Abstract

This document aims to provide standards for the initial definition of all 
on-chain Existential Deposit (ED) values. While defining these values, we also
need to ensure that undefined behavior does not emerge from how these values 
interact.

## Background

While the values defined for ED have mostly been consistent, we have so far 
lacked an official standard for how these values are defined. We have also not
ensured that ED values are accessible wherever needed in our runtime, node, and
front-end applications. We must decide on a consistent standard to use for the
initial definition of all ED values on our chain while also allowing for 
extensibility in the future.

## Requirements

* ED values for all assets supported by the chain are available AND consistent
  across our runtime, node, and front-end applications.

* When the ED of asset A is swapped into asset B, the new balance of asset B is
  substantial for ED. In other words, a user cannot "delete" their balance when 
  they convert it into another asset.

## Method

### Initial Standard ED Value

With the following definitions: 

> * `local_ed` - The functional ED of a asset on our chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `local_ed` - The functional ED of an asset on our chain.
```

* `foreign_asset_ratio` - The ratio of 'one in the foreign asset' over 'one in 
our native asset'

The ED of any asset should be defined as follows:
```
local_ed = native_asset_ed * foreign_asset_ratio
```

This method of setting ED ensures requirement 2.

Example
```
asset_a_local_ed = 100_000_000
asset_a_ratio = Ratio(1_000_000_000, 1_000_000_000_000)
asset_b_local_ed = 100_000
asset_a_ratio = Ratio(1_000_000, 1_000_000_000_000)
native_asset_ed = 100_000_000_000

fn native_to_asset(native_balance, asset_ratio) {
  native_balance * asset_ratio
}

fn asset_to_native(asset_balance, asset_ratio) {
  asset_balance / asset_ratio
}

asset_a_ed_as_native = asset_to_native(asset_a_local_ed, asset_a_ratio)
asset_b_ed_as_native = asset_to_native(asset_b_local_ed, asset_b_ratio)
native_as_asset_b = native_to_asset(native_asset_ed, asset_b_ratio)
asset_a_as_asset_b = native_to_asset(asset_a_ed_as_native, asset_b_ratio)

assert(asset_a_ed_as_native == native_asset_ed)
assert(asset_b_ed_as_native == native_asset_ed)
assert(asset_a_ed_as_native == asset_b_ed_as_native)
assert(native_as_asset_b == asset_a_as_asset_b)
```

### Well-Known Assets & Asset Registry Storage

> For a asset to have its ED be correctly calculated, and therefore to exists on 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an asset to have its ED correctly calculated, and therefore to exist on 
```

chain, it should have its `foreign_asset_ratio` defined in either our Well-Known 
assets list, or stored in Asset Registry.

## Implementation

### Updates to the Functionality of `multi_existential_deposits`

The current implementation of `multi_existential_deposits` does the following:
  
  1. **If an ED is defined for an asset in Asset Registry, return the ED as 
     is.**
  
  2. **Otherwise, pull a hard-coded ED from a `match` statement**.
  
  3. If no matches are found, return `Balance::MAX` which will prune unknown
     assets.
    
It should be updated as follows:

>   1. **If a asset ratio is defined for an asset in Asset Registry or as a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. **If an asset ratio is defined for an asset in Asset Registry or as a 
```

     well-known asset, calculate the standard ED as defined by this document.**
  
  3. If no matches are found, return `Balance::MAX` which will prune unknown
     assets.
    
### Existential Deposit Retrieval

For use in the front-end, an RPC will need to be made available that exposes the
functionality of `multi_existential_deposits`.
    
### Asset Registry

**Note**: If AssetRegistry storage is already in use on Picasso, we will need to
perform a storage migration in the next runtime upgrade for all of these changes
to be possible.

* The function `AssetRegistry::register_asset` should be updated with the 
  following signature:

  ```rust
  pub fn register_asset(
    origin: OriginFor<T>,
    location: T::ForeignAssetId,

>     ratio: Ratio, // Used to be optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ratio: Rational64, // Used to be optional
```
Was recently updated to new type

    decimals: Option<Exponent>,
  ) -> DispatchResultWithPostInfo;
  ```

## Quality Assurance

* Manually changing the values of different EDs is not supported. By default
  EDs should behave as defined in this document.

## Questions

* Will inflation/deflation be a concern as assets enter and leave the chain if
  the ED of a foreign asset is lower/higher on our chain than it is on the
  assets native chain?
  
  > This is not really a solvable problem AFAIK given that we don't control
    validations done on other chains when transferring to Picasso.
  
* Can an RPC expose a function that only exists in the runtime? If not, we may
  need to move `multi_existential_deposits` (or at least its functionality) into
  Asset Registry.
  
  Moving this functionality into Asset Registry will be necessary for 

>   different runtimes to have different asset configurations.

Reviewer: Should this be `>`'d?

Author: It's not a quote, this was my own summarized of an answer

Author: I get where your coming from in terms of formatting Q/A. Will update

     well-known asset, calculate the standard ED as defined by this document.**
  
  3. If no matches are found, return `Balance::MAX` which will prune unknown
     assets.
    
### Existential Deposit Retrieval

For use in the front-end, an RPC will need to be made available that exposes the
functionality of `multi_existential_deposits`.
    
### Asset Registry

**Note**: If AssetRegistry storage is already in use on Picasso, we will need to
perform a storage migration in the next runtime upgrade for all of these changes
to be possible.

* The function `AssetRegistry::register_asset` should be updated with the 
  following signature:

  ```rust
  pub fn register_asset(
    origin: OriginFor<T>,
    location: T::ForeignAssetId,
    ratio: Ratio, // Used to be optional
    decimals: Option<Exponent>,
  ) -> DispatchResultWithPostInfo;
  ```

* Additionally, Asset Registry needs to support creating assets with a defined
asset ID. 

  ```rust
  pub fn register_asset_with_id(
    origin: OriginFor<T>,
    asset_id: T::AssetId,
    location: T::ForeignAssetId,
    ratio: Ratio, // Used to be optional
    decimals: Option<Exponent>,
  ) -> DispatchResultWithPostInfo;

>   ```

Author: Looking back at this, I don't think this will be needed for Albula.

We no longer wish to directly overwrite the ED of well-known assets and with @andresmechali 's work, we don't need to worry about exposing every well-known asset through Asset Registry.

The only other use case I could see for this would be overwriting the ratios of well-known assets with Asset Registry.

Thoughts? @vimukthi-git @dzmitry-lahoda

Reviewer 2: Yes the idea is to hard code assets anyway.
